Reorg automation docs and add a using blueprints section (#15811)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/automation/yaml.markdown

---
title: "Automation YAML"
description: "How to use the automation integration with YAML."
---

Automations are created in Home Assistant via the UI, but are stored in a YAML format. If you want to edit the YAML of an automation, go to edit the automation, click on the menu button in the top right and turn on YAML mode.

> The UI will write your automations to `automations.yaml`. This file is managed by the UI and should not be editted manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI will write your automations to `automations.yaml`. This file is managed by the UI and should not be edited manually.
```

> It is also possible to write your automations direclty inside `configuration.yaml` or other YAML files. You can do this by adding a labelled `automation` block to your `configuration.yaml`:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to write your automations directly inside `configuration.yaml` or other YAML files. You can do this by adding a labeled `automation` block to your `configuration.yaml`:

```

```yaml
# The configuration required for the UI to work
automation: !include automations.yaml

> # Labelled automation block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Labeled automation block
```

automation kitchen:
- trigger:
    platform: ...
```

> You can add as manny labelled `automation` blocks as you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add as many labeled `automation` blocks as you want.
```
